So my thesis is, um, most hard problems are actually curation problems. Um, uh, since human history, we, uh, we made better and better information systems that are faster. And so f-for most of the history, it was... The, the, the difficulty was to access to information. Information was gated in libraries, universities, whatever, and the internet solved this problem. Now we have, uh, much more information than, uh, average researcher had back in the day. But this does not automatically make us smarter, right? And the reason is, uh, information is not useful by itself. It is only useful after it's curated. For example, um, when you want to travel somewhere for vacations, what you do? You Google travel, best travel vacations, which is an intention to tap into someone else's knowledge, someone else's curated information on best travel destinations. And by consuming this curated information, you place your trust on the curator's competency and good intentions. Which is okay. Like, we cannot, [clears throat] we cannot curate everything by ourselves. We cannot verify, sort, categorize, evaluate everything by ourselves. So by tapping into others' work of curation, we increase our productivity. It's convenient. It's helpful. Nothing wrong with that. But trusting a curator comes with its own drawbacks. So if you think about, uh, news, for example, news... A newspap-- What is a newspaper? It's a collection of news articles curated by certain entity, right? And what do we do with the information we consume from newspapers? [clears throat] We make decisions. We make important decisions out of it. Maybe we base our decisions of, uh, voting in a democratic setting based on the news we consume, maybe the worldview. So the, the democracy as-assumes that, uh, voters are rational and informed, right? A well, well-functioning democracy needs voters that consume quality knowledge. So if these people are consuming newspapers curated by third parties, this third party has the opportunity to weaponize this privilege to, to disinformation, like intentionally poison the consumers. Or by incompetence, they can be misinformed. Like, it's, uh, bad knowledge, but it's not intentional. [clears throat] So my point is, curation is useful, but it has its, uh, drawbacks due to trust assumptions. And over centuries, uh, despite we progressed a lot by making bigger and faster information systems, we did not make, uh, any significant progress on information qualityUh, or maybe knowledge quality. [clears throat] So in this work, in this thesis, I identify many hard problems as actually curation problems, curation-borne problems, and I propose a solution of, uh, creating a curation, decentralized curation solution in which you don't have to place trust to curators. Therefore, um, producing high quality information and, uh, I have a high level framework. First, uh, you identify a problem which is in case-- which is actually a curation problem. For example, governance is a hard problem, right? So you are trying to govern a certain entity optimally. People make proposals, people vote, and governance is notoriously hard, hard thing to do. But wh-why is it so? Uh, why people cannot converge on what's good for the entity? And these people are the stakeholders of this entity, like the community. For example, uh, let's say this governance is about a share as-shared asset. Let's say one hundred people shares one asset, and they collectively decide on what to do with it. So they all want to benefit, uh, from it, right? But somehow the govern-governance ends up being a mess. Imagine a building with, uh, many apartments. It's really difficult to take action, make decisions. Why, why is that so? Is it because, uh, people are, uh, people are shit and they cannot get their shit together and they cannot coordinate? Is it so, like people cannot coordinate, you think? I say no. I say it's actually a curation problem because to take action as a collective, you need to have a shared, shared reality. If you and me share the same worldview, same reality, then it's very straightforward to converge onto same decision and take the action. Then how do we end up in a shared reality? We both consume news, [clears throat] but when news are not reliable, not, uh, trusted, we tend to choose what we want to believe, s-believe to. So to give you an example, we wouldn't be arguing over whether two plus two equals to four. It's, uh, it's obviously four. It's, uh, trusted knowledge, so we don't argue over it, and if we ever have to come to consensus on it, it will be no issue whether we are two people or two thousand people. It's-- it will be no issue. But if we want to come to a consensus on which party to vote on, it's extremely difficult because, uh, we both have different, uh, realities, constructed realities in our minds, and we construct them by consuming information around us. Some of the information are incorrect, inaccurate. Some we don't even, uh, know about them, so our information is incomplete. So if you see my point, like governance is actually a curation problem. So the first step of the framework is to identify a problem, seemingly something else, but
Actually a curation problem. So yeah, fir-first you identify the hidden curation problem. The second thing is, uh, you identify the nature of this curation in this problem. So when I said, uh, we curate information, there is no, uh, single universal quality of in-information. Information has certain distinct qualities. Uh, actually, this is studied by... [clears throat] Let me pull it. Yeah, this is studied by Wang and Strong, 1996, "Beyond Accuracy." So the core thesis is data quality is not a single dimension. Through empirical research, surveys of data consumers, Wang and Strong identify that data quality decomposes into multiple dimensions grouped into four categories: intrinsic, accuracy, objectivity, believability, reputation; contextual, relevance, timeliness, completeness, value-added amounts; representational, interpretability, ease of understanding, conciseness, consistency; and accessibility, accessibility and security. So the second step of the framework is to identify which qualities of information you need to curate for. To give you an example, uh, if it was news use case, which I studied, uh, extensively, I identified two most important qualities of information for news. It's accuracy, obviously. We want the news we consume to be accurate, not fake, not incorrect, not wrong, accurate. But also one equals to one is not a news, right? It's perfectly accurate, but not a news. So only curating for accuracy quality of information for the news use case is not enough. The second quality we need to curate for is relevance. For example, uh, if we are publishing a newspaper on world, uh, politics and if, um, if we make news about a football game, even if the news is perfectly accurate, it will be irrelevant for our curation, therefore not s-suitable. Um, relevancy also, um... Relevancy also contains importance in itself. Um, for example, a voting result is very relevant if you publish about it the next day, but it's not so relevant if you publish it ten years later. It's old news. It's not so relevant anymore. So yeah, this is, uh, an example of the second step of the framework. The third step is, um... Actually, I think I confused about steps, uh, numbering only. But there is... But we can, we can, uh, we can, uh, talk about step numbers again. But another step is, so for, uh, my solution, my solution framework to work, the information, or we can call them claims or statements, should state fal-falsifiable claims.If you think about it, if information is easily verifiable, there is no need to play games. You can simply present the proof and that's the end of the game. For example, we don't have to frantically search and curate for whether one equals to one because you can easily prove that, or two plus two equals to four. You simply present the proof and it's sufficient. But some, some facts, some statements, some claims are not easily verifiable. Actually, they are very difficult to verify, but easy to falsify. We need these kind of claims to work on. If you circle back to news, a piece of news is difficult to verify but easy to falsify. For example, I can claim that something has happened, but it's, it's very difficult to prove that it happened. But someone else at a later time come up with an evidence to falsify my claim. So it's easy to falsify. Popper has, uh, a work on this, on falsifiability. So... [keyboard clicking] Yeah, so Popper has... [keyboard clicking] Okay, let, let me add it to my literature. [keyboard clicking] Yeah. So core thesis of Popper, the logic of scientific discovery. A statement is scientific if and only if it is falsifiable. There must exist a possible observation that would contradict it. Verification is logically asymmetric with falsification. No finite set of observations can prove a universal claim, but a single counterexample can refute it. This asymmetry is the demarcation criterion separating science from non-science. So we tap into this concept. Um, in this method of mine, we cannot process non-falsifiable claims like claims about God. And there is no point processing easily verifiable claims because why not just verify it and, uh, get it done? [keyboard clicking] Yes, so going back to my... [sighs] my system. [keyboard clicking] Yeah, the final, final step is to craft a mechanism. So it's mechanism design.
Design distinct mechanisms for each identified dimension of information quality. Um, so for, um, again, news example. For example, accuracy is, uh, easily could be created for with a binary classification mechanism. So a binary mechanism could be employed, but for relevance, uh, binary classification would fall short, like, is this relevant? Yes or no? But it's, it doesn't help you sort relevance. For example, in public goods allocation, you just don't simply ask the question whether funding this project is relevant or not. You want to find the most relevant... Actually, you want to have the relevance weight set. You, you should be able to rank candidates for their relevancy to be able to allocate accordingly. And s- ranking is not enough. You also want to be able to assign weights. If you think about, uh, weights of beneficiaries, uh, a vector, and each weight is between zero and one, and all, all the weights sum up to one, you are trying to come up with a weight vector normalized between zero and one, which maximizes public benefit. So this is, uh, my core idea. And I also argue that, uh, curation is the bottleneck of our civilization because we get better and better on information access, creation, and storage. If you think about the latest developments on AI, now it's far cheaper to create, uh, information, which makes the curation problem even worse. Um. People can now produce well-structured papers, fluent prose, and working code without understanding what they have produced. The form of quality, proper formatting, confident language, plausible situations, si- situations is now trivially cheap to generate. The substance of quality, correctness, coherence, domain understanding still is not. The flood of machine-generated content that looks credible but lacks grounding makes the curation bottleneck not merely important, but urgent actually. The volume of information that needs to be filtered, verified, and organized growing faster and faster while our curation capabilities are not getting more sophisticated. And if you think about it, uh, recent advances in generative AI have made this problem structurally worse. Historically, the cost of producing information served as a crude quality filter, a kind of, uh, proof of work. Writing a convincing academic paper required unders- understanding the subject. Writing functional software required knowing how to program. Competence and output were coupled because producing the signal required the same effort that made it credible. And AI severs that coupling. People can now produce without understanding. Which, uh, puts us in a situation as a civilization. We have information abundance, but knowledge scarcity. I also want to briefly touch on another use case. I think this is one of the strongest use cases. So if you think about advertising, it's one of the, maybe the most wasteful industry of all because, um, what are you producing in advertisement actually? You produce nothing. You compete for attention, and this competition escalates to the point where it's infeasible. Like, all parties playing this game will spend their maximal resources on it to the point it gets infeasible. This is in a game theoretic senseThis is very similar to Bitcoin mining, like competing miners will spend their resources maximally to the point it's infeasible. If you think about Bitcoin's electric usage, Bitcoin does not have production cost. People will use electricity to the point it gets infeasible, which means people will use all the slack electricity. So advertisers will use all the slack resources. Think about water. So we have water shortages, right? We need to take showers less longer. By taking less longer showers, we actually feed the excess water to industry because how does industry spend water? They spend till-- spend all the slack to the point it gets feasible. So if retail uses less water, they produce slack water and this slack water will be consumed by industry anyway. So by changing your water usage habits, you cannot change the global water consumption. You just, uh, push usage from retail to industry. Another example, uh, arms race. Nations race in arms to the point it gets infeasible. So I have one firepower, the rival nation has two firepower. Now I need three firepower. And now they make five of them. At some point, it will be so big, it will get infeasible, and that's where everyone stops, which means we will use all the slack resources, and then we stop. So if you, uh, look through this lens, all of these examples are similar in game theoretic sense, and they are negative sum games. Everyone involving in the game loses. Advertisement is one of them. So think a new way of, uh, advertising. Let's say we design a game, uh, advertisements are made in a form of a claim. For example, my product is this, this, this, or my product is the best, whatever. And you put a bounty on top of your product. And if you are-- if your claim is right, your, your only cost is, uh, locking your capital for a certain amount of time. So almost negligible. But if your claim is not right, you lose your capital. So this pushes the cost from, uh, false, uh, good, good, uh, actors with, uh, correct advertisements to bad actors with false advertisements. The benefit it creates, advertisements becomes negligibly cheap, and who-whomever consumes advertisements actually consumes quality knowledge. Uh, they get to know what are the best products out there. So it benefits consumers, it benefits producers as well. Only one loses is the bad actors, which is the, uh, intended behavior of this system. So let's, uh, talk about the mechanism design for a moment. I, uh, vaguely talked about, uh, mechanism, but I did not explain how would it work. So I'm extensively using Schelling games to design my mechanisms. For example, um, [clears throat] Okay, I'll go into mechanism design in a later, uh, recording.